We had a fine mixed pack of dogs,
trailers, runners, and fighters. The runners were thoroughbred
greyhounds, that could catch any four-foot on the plains except perhaps
a buck Antelope; that I saw them signally fail in. But a Wolf, or even
the swift Coyote, had no chance of getting away from them provided they
could keep him in view. We started one of these singers of the plains,
and at first he set off trusting to his legs, but the greyhounds were
after him, and when he saw his long start shrinking so fearfully fast he
knew that his legs could not save him, that now was the time for wits to
enter the game. And this entry he made quickly and successfully by
dropping out of sight down a brushy canyon, so the greyhounds saw him no
more. Then they were baffled by Prairie-dogs which
dodged down out of reach and hawks which rose up out of reach, and still
we rode, till, rounding a little knoll near a drinking place, we came
suddenly on a mother Blacktail and her two fawns. All three swung their
big ears and eyes into full bearing on us, and we reined our horses and
tried to check our dogs, hoping they had not seen the quarry that we did
not wish to harm. But Bran the leader gave a yelp, then leaping high
over the sage, directed all the rest, and in a flash it was a life and
death race. Again and frantically the elder Eaton yelled "Come back!" and his
brother tried to cut across and intercept the hounds. But a creature
that runs away is an irresistible bait to a greyhound, and the chase
across the sage-covered flat was on, with every nerve and tendon
strained. X.