I shall not forget the unpleasant sensations I had
when first, in 1897, I visited the Yellowstone Wonderland and stood
gazing at that abominable Mud Geyser, which is even worse to-day. The
entry in my journal of the time runs thus:

"The Mud Geyser is unlike anything that can be seen elsewhere. One
hears about the bowels of the earth; this surely is the end of one of
them. They talk of the mouth of hell; this is the mouth with a severe
fit of vomiting. The filthy muck is spewed from an unseen gullet at one
side into a huge upright mouth with sounds of oozing, retching and
belching. Then as quickly reswallowed with noises expressive of loathing
on its own part, while noxious steam spreads disgusting, unpleasant
odours all around. The whole process is quickly repeated, and goes on
and on, and has gone on for ages, and will go. And yet one feels that
this is merely the steam vent outside of the huge factory where all the
actual work is being done. One does not really see the thing at all, but
only stands outside the building where it is going
on. One never wishes to see it a second time. All are disgusted by it,
but all are fascinated."

No, I like them not. I have a natural antipathy to the internal
arrangements of Mother Earth. I might almost say a delicacy about gazing
on such exposure. Anyhow, we shall all get underground soon enough; and
I usually drop off when our party prepares to explore dark, horrible,
smelly underground places that have no possible claim (I hold) for the
normal being of healthy instincts. But near the Mammoth Hot Springs is a hellhole that did attract me. It is nothing else than the stuffy, blind alley known as the Devil's
Kitchen. There is no cooking going on at present, probably because it is
not heated up enough, but there is a peculiarly hot, close feeling
suggestive of the Monkey house in an old-time zoo. I went down this, not
that I was interested in the Satanic cuisine, but because my ancient
antipathy was routed by my later predilectionâ€“I was told that Bats
"occurred" in the kitchen. Sure enough, I found them, half a dozen, so
far as one could tell in the gloom, and thanks to the Park
Superintendent, Colonel L. M. Brett, I secured a specimen which, to my
great surprise, turned out to be the long-eared Bat, a Southern species
never before
discovered north of Colorado. It will be interesting to know whether
they winter here or go south, as do many of their kin.