It was, in fact, only ended by the death of the
boy. As the story goes, the dolphin felt so badly when the lad failed to
come as usual, that it threw itself on the shore, and died, as was
thought, of very grief and sorrow at the loss of its friend. XXVI

A GOOD
FINDER

One day a tradesman, walking with a friend, offered to wager that if
he were to hide a five-shilling piece in the dust, his dog would find it
and bring it to him. The wager was accepted, and the piece of money
marked and hidden. When the two had gone on some distance, the tradesman
called to his dog that he had lost something, and told him to seek it. The dog turned back at once, and his master and his friend went on their
way. Meanwhile a traveller, driving a small chaise, saw the piece of
money which his horse had kicked from its hiding-place, alighted, took
it up and drove to his inn. The dog had just reached the spot in search
of the lost piece, when the stranger picked it up. He followed the
chaise, went into the inn, and, having scented the coin in the pocket of
the traveller, he kept leaping up at him. Supposing him to be some dog
that had lost his master, the traveller took these actions as marks of
affection, and as the animal was handsome, decided to keep him. He gave
him a good supper, and on retiring, took him with him to his room. But
no sooner had he pulled off his trousers than they were seized by the
dog. The owner, thinking that the dog only wanted to play with them,
took them away. The animal began to bark at the door, which the
traveller opened, thinking the animal wanted to go out. The dog
snatched up
the trousers, and away he went, the traveller, with his nightcap on,
posting after him. The dog ran full speed to his master's house,
followed by the stranger, who accused the dog of robbing him. Sir,
said the master, my dog is a very faithful creature; and if he ran away
with your trousers, it is because you have in them money which does not
belong to you. The traveller became still more angry. Keep calm, sir,
answered the other, smiling; no doubt there is in your purse a
five-shilling piece which you picked up in the road, and which I hid,
knowing my dog would bring it back. This was the reason for the robbery
which he committed upon you. The stranger said he had found such a
coin, gave it up to the man, and went on his way. But the clever dog had
thus proven himself to be a good finder. XXVIII

REVENGE

A wild stork was brought by a farmer into his poultry yard, to be the
companion of a tame one, which he had long kept there; but the tame
stork, disliking a rival, fell upon the poor, wild stranger, and beat
him so terribly that he took wing and flew off. About four months afterwards, however, his injuries having all
healed, he returned to the poultry yard, with three other storks, who no
sooner alighted than they all together fell upon the tame stork, and
killed it. XXVIII

MICE AS
SAILORS

Although there are few who would dispute the cleverness and sagacity
of the larger animals, it is doubtful if there are many who credit the
mouse with even average intelligence. The following instance may go far
to raise our humble friend in the popular estimation; more especially as
the story is told by one who really saw the whole performance. In a
country where berries are scarce, these little animals were obliged to
cross a river to make their forages. In returning with their booty to
their homes, they had to recross the stream; in doing which they showed
an ingenuity little short of marvelous. The party, which consisted of
five, selected a water-lily leaf, on which they placed their berries in
a heap in the middle; then, by their united force, they brought it to
the water's edge, and after launching it, jumped on it, and placed
themselves round the heap, with their heads joined over it, and their
backs to the water. In this manner they drifted down the stream until
they reached the opposite shore, when they unloaded their cargo, and
stored it away for the coming rainy day. XXIX

DRAWING
WATER

Some years ago, a donkey was employed at Carisbrook Castle, in the
Isle of Wight, in drawing water by means of a large wheel from a very
deep well, thought to have been sunk by the Romans. When the keeper
wanted water, he would say to the donkey, Tom, my boy, I want water;
get into the wheel, my lad. Thomas, thereupon, got in, with a speed and
wisdom that would have done credit to a nobler animal. No doubt he knew
the exact number of times the wheel had to turn upon its axis to bring
up the bucket, because every time he brought it to the surface of the
well, he stopped and turned round his honest head to note the moment
when his master laid hold of the bucket to draw it toward him, because
he had then a nice turn to make either to draw back, or to go ahead a
little. It was pleasing to see with what steadiness and regularity the
poor animal did his work.