XXX

THE BROKEN
HEART

During the French Revolution M. des R––, an ancient magistrate and
most estimable man, was condemned to die on the charge of conspiracy,
and was thrown into prison. M. des R–– had a water spaniel, which had
been brought up by him, and was always with him. Shut out of the prison,
he returned to his master's house, and found it closed. He then took
refuge with a neighbor. Every day at the same hour, the dog left the
house, and went straight to the door of the prison, where he whined
mournfully. He was refused admittance, but each day he spent an hour
before the door, and then went away. His fidelity at last won over the
porter, and one day he was allowed to enter. The dog saw his master and
clung to him. The jailer could hardly drive him away. He came back the
next morning, and every day; once each day he was admitted. He licked
the hand of his friend, looked him in the face, again licked his hand,
and went away of his own accord. After the execution, at which the dog was present, he walked by the
side of the corpse to its burial place, and after the ceremony laid
himself upon the grave. There he passed the first night, the next day,
and the next night. The neighbor, in the meantime, unhappy at not seeing
him, went in search of his friend, and found him by his master's grave. He caressed him and made him eat a little food. He
even coaxed the faithful creature away for a few moments, but he soon
returned to his master's grave. Three months passed. The dog came each
morning to get his food, and then returned to the grave. Each day he was
more sad, more lean, more feeble. He was chained up, but broke his
fetters; escaped; returned to the grave, and never left it more. It was
in vain that they tried to get him back. They carried him food, but he
ate no longer. For hours he was seen digging up with his weakened limbs
the earth that separated him from his beloved master. Passion gave him
strength, and at last he was near to the body. Then his faithful heart
gave way, and he breathed out a last gasp, as if he knew he had found
his master. XXXI

REMORSE

An elephant, from some motive of revenge, killed his mahout, or
driver. The man's wife, who beheld the dreadful scene, took her two
children, and threw them at the feet of the angry animal, saying, Since
you have slain my husband, take my life also, and that of my children.
The elephant instantly became calm looked at them a moment, and then, as
if stung with remorse, took up the eldest boy with his trunk, placed him
on his neck, adopted him for his driver, and would never afterwards
allow any other person to mount him. XXXII

A COMEDY
OF ELEPHANTS

In a play exhibited at Rome, in the reign of Tiberius, there were
twelve elephant performers, six male and six female, all fixed up in
fancy costumes. After they had, at the command of their keeper, danced
and performed a thousand curious antics, a most sumptuous feast was
served up for their refreshment. The table was covered with all sorts of
dainties and golden goblets filled with the most precious wines. Couches
covered with purple carpets were placed around for the animals to lie
upon, after the manner of the Romans when feasting, and on these couches
the elephants laid themselves down. At a given signal they reached out
their trunks to the table, and fell to eating and drinking with as much
propriety as if they had been so many men and women. XXXIII

CUNNING AS
A FOX

An American gentleman was hunting foxes, accompanied by two
bloodhounds. The dogs were soon in scent, and followed a fox nearly two
hours, when suddenly they appeared at fault. The gentleman came up with
them near a large log lying upon the ground, and was much surprised to
find them taking a circuit of a few rods without an object, every trace
of the game seeming to have been lost, while they still kept yelping. On
looking round about himself, he saw sly Reynard stretched upon the log,
as still as if he were dead. The master made several efforts to direct
the attention of his dogs toward the fox, but failed. At last he went so
near the artful creature that he could see it breathe. Even then no
alarm was shown; and the gentleman, seizing a club, aimed a blow at him,
which Reynard evaded by a leap from his strange hiding-place, having
thus for a time effectually eluded his greedy pursuers. XXXIV

FAITHFUL
THOUGH UNLOVED

A gentleman once owned a mastiff which guarded the house and yard,
but had never any particular attention from his master. One night, as
his master was retiring to his room, attended by his valet, an Italian,
the mastiff silently followed him upstairs, something which he had never
been before known to do, and to his master's astonishment, came into his
bedroom. He was at once turned out; but the poor animal began scratching
violently at the door, and howled loudly for admission. The servant was
sent to drive him away; but again he returned, and seemed more anxious
than before to be let in. Getting tired of his barking, the gentleman
bade the servant open the door, that they might see what it was the
animal wanted to do. As soon as he was let in the dog walked to the bed,
and crawling under it, laid himself down as if intending to spend the
night there. To save farther trouble, this was allowed. About midnight
the chamber door opened, and some one was heard stepping carefully
across the floor. The gentleman started from his sleep; the dog sprang
from his covert, and seizing the unwelcome intruder, fixed him to the
spot. All was dark, and the gentleman rang his bell in great fear in
order to procure a light. The person who was pinned to the floor by the
courageous
mastiff was roaring for assistance. It was found to be the valet, who
little expected such a reception. He tried to apologize for his
intrusion, and to make the reasons which led him to take this step
appear plausible; but the importunity of the dog, the time, the place,
the manner of the valet, all raised the suspicions of his master, and he
determined to refer the investigation of the business to a magistrate. The Italian at length confessed that it was his intention to murder his
master and then rob the house. This he would surely have done, had it
not been for the great wisdom of the dog and his wonderful friendship
for a master who had never treated him with the kindness that he should
have done. XXXV

A FAITHFUL
COMPANION

A gardener, in removing some rubbish one day, found two ground toads
of uncommon size, weighing no less than seven pounds. While he was
watching them, he was surprised to see that one of them got upon the
back of the other, and then both moved slowly over the ground toward a
place of retreat.