One of them, not liking his employment, hid himself on
the day that he should work, so that his companion was forced to mount
the wheel in his stead, but crying and wagging his tail, he made sign
for those about him to follow him. He at once led them to a garret,
where he found the idle dog, drove him out and killed him at once.

XCIV

AN ASS
CAST AWAY

An ass, belonging to a captain in the Royal Navy, then at Malta, was
shipped on board a frigate, bound from Gibraltar for that island. The
vessel struck on some sands off the Point de Gat, and the ass was thrown
overboard, in the hope that it might possibly be able to swim to the
land. Of this, however, there did not seem to be much chance, for the
sea was running so high, that a boat which left the ship was lost. A few
days later, when the gates of Gibraltar were opened one morning the
guard were surprised by Valiant, as the ass was called, presenting
himself there for admittance. On entering, he went at once to the stable
of a merchant, where he had formerly lived. The poor animal had not only
swum safely to shore, but without guide, compass, or travelling map, had
found his way from Point de Gat to Gibraltar, a distance of more than
two hundred miles, through a mountainous and intricate country, crossed
by streams, which he had never travelled over before, and in so short a
period, that he could not have made one false turn. XCV

QUARRELSOME
APES

The town of Bindrabund in India is in high regard with the pious
Hindoos, who resort to it from the most remote parts of the empire. The
town is surrounded by groves of trees, which are the homes of numberless
apes, whose fondness for mischief is increased by the religious respect
paid to them in honor of a divinity of the Hindoo mythology, who is
represented as having the body of an ape. Because of this superstition,
such numbers of these animals are supported by the free-will offerings
of pilgrims, that no one dares to resist or ill-treat them. Hence,
access to the town is often difficult; for should one of the apes take a
dislike to any unlucky traveller, he is sure to be assailed by the whole
community, who follow him with all the missile weapons they can collect,
such as pieces of bamboo, stones, and dirt, making at the same time a
most hideous howling. Of the danger attending a meeting with enemies of
this description, the following is a melancholy instance. Two young
cavalry officers, belonging to the Bengal army, having occasion to pass
through the town, were attacked by a body of apes, at whom one of the
gentlemen had foolishly fired. The alarm instantly drew the whole body,
with the fakeers, out of the place, with so much fury that the officers,
though they were
mounted upon elephants, were compelled to seek safety in flight; and in
trying to pass the Jumna, they both of them were drowned. XCVI

A FALSE
ALARM

Some years ago, a soldier, who was doing duty at the castle of Cape
Town, kept a tame baboon for his amusement. One evening it broke its
chains unknown to him, and in the night it climbed up into the belfry,
and began to play with and ring the bell. Instantly the whole place was in an uproar; some great danger was
feared. Many thought that the castle was on fire; others, that an enemy
had entered the bay, and the soldiers actually began to turn out, when
it was discovered that the mischievous baboon had caused the
disturbance. On the following morning a court-martial was held, when Cape justice
decided that whereas the baboon had unnecessarily put the castle into
alarm, its master should receive fifty lashes. The soldier, however,
found someway to evade the punishment. XCVII

A CHILD
SAVED

A shepherd, in one of his trips to look after his flock, took with
him one of his children, a boy three years old. After crossing his
pastures for some time, followed by his dog, he found it necessary to
ascend a hill at some distance, to obtain a better view of his range. As
the climb was too much for the little child, he left him on a small
plain at the bottom, telling him not to stir from it until his return. Scarcely had he gained the top of the hill, however, when the sky was
darkened by a thick mist. The anxious father at once hurried back to
find his child; but owing to the unusual darkness, he missed his way. After a fruitless search of many hours, he discovered that he had
reached the bottom of the valley, and was near his own cottage. To renew
the search that night was both vain and most dangerous; he was,
therefore, compelled to go home, although he had lost both his child and
his dog, that had attended him faithfully for many years. Next morning,
by break of day, the shepherd, with many of his neighbors, set out to
look for the child; but after a day of searching, he returned to his
home, disappointed. He found that the dog which he had lost the day
before had been to the cottage, and after getting a piece of cake, had
at once gone away again. For several days the shepherd
kept up the search, and on his return each evening, he found that the
dog had been home, had received his usual allowance of cake, and then
had instantly disappeared. Struck with this strange behavior on the part
of the dog, he remained at home one day; and when the dog, as usual,
left with his piece of cake, he decided to follow him, and find out the
cause of this queer procedure. The dog led the way to a cataract at some
distance from the spot where the shepherd had left the child. Down a
rugged and almost perpendicular descent the dog began, without
hesitation, to make his way, and at last disappeared by entering into a
cave, the mouth of which was almost level with the torrent. The shepherd
with difficulty followed; but on entering the cave, what was his joy,
when he saw his lost baby boy eating with much satisfaction the cake
which the faithful dog had just brought to him, while the noble creature
stood by, looking at his young charge most lovingly. The child had
probably wandered to the brink of the precipice, and then had either
fallen or scrambled down till he reached the cave. The dog had tracked
him to the spot; and afterward kept him from starving by giving up to
him his own daily portion of food. He never left the child by day or
night, except when he went for the food; and then he was always seen
running at full speed to and from the cottage. Transcriber' note:

CHAPTER XXVIII is placed twice and has not been changed in this
etext. ** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ANECDOTES OF ANIMALS
***

Updated editions will replace the previous one–the old editions will be
renamed. Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S.