The poor animal instantly put forth still greater efforts,
fractured his skull, and died on the spot. XIV

THE CAT
AND THE CROWS

A pair of crows once made their nest in one of the trees that were
planted round the garden of a gentleman, who, in his morning walks, was
often amused by watching furious combats between the crows and a cat. One morning the battle raged more fiercely than usual, till at last the
cat gave way, and took shelter under a hedge, as if to wait a better
chance of escaping to the house. The crows continued for a short time to
make a threatening noise; but seeing that on the ground they could do
nothing more than threaten, one of them lifted a stone from the middle
of the garden, and perched with it on a tree planted in the hedge, where
she sat, watching the movements of the cat, who, she feared, was after
her little ones. As the cat crept along under the hedge, the crow
followed her, flying from branch to branch, and from tree to tree; and
when at last puss dared to leave her hiding place, the crow, leaving the
tree, and hovering over her in the air, let the stone drop from on high
on her back. XV

HEROISM OF
AN IRISH HEN

A contest of rather an unusual nature took place in the house of an
innkeeper in Ireland. The parties engaged were a hen of the game species
and a rat of middle size. The hen, in a walk round a spacious room,
accompanied by an only chicken, the last one left of a large brood, was
roused to madness by an attack made by a fierce rat on her helpless
little one. The frightened cries of her beloved little chick, while it
was being dragged away by the rat, awoke all the mother-love in the
bosom of the hen.