For three days the animal continued to watch the body, his mournful
howling awakening the sympathy of every heart. Food was brought to him,
and he was kindly coaxed to eat it; but on taking the bread, instead of
eating it himself, he fondly laid it on his master's mouth and renewed
his howling. Days thus passed, but not for a single moment did he leave
the body. The body was at length thrown into the Tiber, and the loving
creature, still unwilling that it should perish, leaped into the water
after it, and clasping the corpse between its paws, vainly tried to keep
it from sinking. XXIII

A JUST
RETALIATION

A tame elephant kept by a merchant was allowed to go at large. The
animal used to walk about the streets in as quiet and familiar a manner
as any of the people, and took great pleasure in visiting the shops,
especially those which sold herbs and fruit, where he was well received,
except by a couple of brutal cobblers, who, without any cause, took
offense at the generous creature, and once or twice tried to wound his
trunk with their awls. The noble animal, who knew it was beneath him to
crush them, did not hesitate to punish them by other means. He filled
his large trunk with water, not of the cleanest quality, and advancing
to them, as usual, covered them all at once with the very dirty flood. The fools were laughed at, and the punishment applauded. A Just Retaliation.–Page 48

A Just Retaliation.–Page 48

XXIV

AN ODD
FAMILY

A gentleman travelling through Mecklenburg relates the following
curious incident which happened at an inn at which he was staying. After
dinner, the landlord placed on the floor a large dish of soup, and then
gave a loud whistle. At once there came into the room a mastiff, a fine
Angora cat, an old raven, and a remarkably large rat, with a bell about
its neck. These four animals went to the dish, and without disturbing
one another, fed together. After they had eaten, the dog, cat, and rat
lay before the fire, and the raven hopped about the room. XXV

THE
DOLPHIN

In the reign of Augustus CÃ¦sar there was, in the Lucrine lake, a
dolphin which formed a most romantic attachment to the son of a poor
man. The boy had to go every day from BaiÃ¦ to Puteoli to school, and
such were the friendly terms on which he had got with the dolphin, that
he had only to wait by the banks of the lake and cry, Simo, Simo–the
name he had given to the animal, when, lo! Simo came scudding to the
shore, let fall the sharp prickles of his skin, and gently offered his
back for the boy to mount upon. The boy, nothing afraid, used to mount
at once, and the dolphin, without either rein or spur, would speed
across the sea to Puteoli, and after landing the young scholar, wait
about the shore till it was time for the boy to go home, when it would
again perform the same sort of friendly service. The boy was not
ungrateful for such great kindness, and used every day to bring a good
store of food for Simo, which the animal would take from his hand in the
most tame and kindly manner imaginable. For several years this friendly
intercourse was kept up.