image

Anecdote XXXI. The Broken Heart

During the French Revolution M. des R––, an ancient magistrate and
most estimable man, was condemned to death on the charge of conspiracy
and thrown into prison. M. des R––Â had a water spaniel, which had been
brought up by him, and had never quitted him. Refused admission to the
prison, he returned to his master's house, and found it shut; he took
refuge with a neighbour. Every day at the same hour the dog left the
house, and went to the door of the prison. He was refused admittance,
but he constantly passed an hour before it, and then returned. His
fidelity at length won over the porter, and he was one day allowed to
enter. The dog saw his master and clung to him. The gaoler with
difficulty forced him away. He came back the next morning, and every
day; once each day he was admitted. He licked the hand of his friend,
looked him in the face, again licked his hand, and went away of
himself. After the execution, at which the dog was present, he walked by the
side of the corpse to its burial-place, and after the ceremony laid
himself upon the grave. There he passed the first night, the next day,
and the second night. The neighbour in the meantime, unhappy at not
seeing him, goes in search of his friend, finds him by his master's
grave, caresses him, and makes him eat. An hour afterwards the dog
escaped, and regained his favourite place. Three months passed away,
each morning of which he came to seek his food, and then returned to the
grave of his master; but each day he was more sad, more meagre, more
languishing. He was chained up, but broke his fetters; escaped; returned
to the grave, and never quitted it more. It was in vain that they tried
to bring him back. They carried him food, but he ate no longer. For
hours he was seen employing his weakened limbs in digging up the earth
that separated him from his master. Passion gave him strength, and he
gradually approached the body; at last his faithful heart gave way, and
he breathed out his last gasp, as if he knew that he had found his
master. image

Anecdote XXXII. A Comedy of Quadrupeds

In a play exhibited at Rome, in the reign of Tiberius, there were
twelve elephant performers, six males and six females, clothed in fancy
costume. After they had, at the command of their keeper, danced and
performed a thousand curious antics, a most sumptuous feast was served
up for their refreshment. The table was covered with all sorts of
dainties, and golden goblets filled with the most precious wines; and
beds covered with purple carpets were placed around for the animals to
lie upon, after the manner of the Romans when feasting. On these carpets
the elephants laid themselves down, and at a given signal they reached
out their trunks to the table, and fell to eating and drinking with as
much propriety as if they had been so many honest citizens. image

Anecdote XXXIII. Cunning as a Fox

An American gentleman was in pursuit of foxes, accompanied by two
bloodhounds; the dogs were soon in scent, and pursued a fox nearly two
hours, when suddenly they appeared at fault. The gentleman came up with
them near a large log lying upon the ground, and felt much surprised to
find them taking a circuit of a few rods without an object, every trace
of the game seeming to have been lost, while they kept still yelping. On
looking about him, he discovered sly Reynard stretched upon the log,
apparently lifeless. The master made several efforts to direct the
attention of his dogs towards the fox but failed; at length he
approached so near the artful object of his pursuit as to see him
breathe. Even then no alarm was exhibited; and the gentleman seizing a
club, aimed a blow at him, which Reynard evaded by a leap from his
singular lurking-place, having thus for a time effectually eluded his
rapacious pursuers. image

Anecdote XXXIV. More Faithful than Favoured

A gentleman once possessed a mastiff which guarded the house and
yard, but had never met with the least particular attention from his
master. One night, as his master was retiring to his chamber, attended
by his faithful valet, an Italian, the mastiff silently
followed him upstairs, which he had never been known to do before, and,
to his master's astonishment, presented himself in his bedroom. He was
instantly turned out; but the poor animal began scratching violently at
the door, and howling loudly for admission. The servant was sent to
drive him away; still he returned again, and was more importunate than
before to be let in. The gentleman, weary of opposition, bade the
servant open the door, that they might see what he wanted to do. This
done, the dog deliberately walked up, and crawling under the bed, laid
himself down as if desirous to take up his night's lodging there. To
save farther trouble, the indulgence was allowed. About midnight the
chamber door opened, and a person was heard stepping across the room. The gentleman started from his sleep; the dog sprung from his covert,
and seizing the unwelcome disturber, fixed him to the spot! All was
dark; and the gentleman rang his bell in great trepidation, in order to
procure a light. The person who was pinned to the floor by the
courageous mastiff roared for assistance. It was found to be the valet,
who little expected such a reception. He endeavoured to apologise for
his intrusion, and to make the reasons which induced him to take this
step appear plausible; but the importunity of the dog, the time, the
place, the manner of the valet, all raised suspicions in his master's
mind, and he determined to refer the investigation of the business to a
magistrate. The perfidious Italian at length confessed that it was his
intention to murder his master, and then rob the house. This diabolical
design was frustrated only by the instinctive attachment of the dog to
his master, which seemed to have been directed on this occasion by the
interference of Providence. image

Anecdote XXXV. Elephant Rope Dancing

The ease with which the elephant is taught to perform the most agile
and difficult feats, forms a remarkable contrast to its huge
unwieldiness of size. Aristotle tells us that in ancient times elephants
were taught by their keepers to throw stones at a mark, to cast up arms
in the air, and catch them again on their fall; and to dance not merely
on the earth, but on the rope. The first, according to Suetonius, who
exhibited elephant rope dancers, was Galba at Rome. The manner of
teaching them to dance on the ground was simple enough (by the
association of music and a hot floor); but we are not informed how they
were taught to skip the rope, or whether it was the tight or the slack
rope, or how high the rope might be. The silence of history on these
points is fortunate for the figurantes of the present day; since, but
for this, their fame might have been utterly eclipsed. Elephants may, in
the days of old Rome, have been taught to dance on the rope, but when
was an elephant ever known to skip on a rope over the heads of an
audience, or to caper amidst a blaze of fire fifty feet aloft in the
air? What would Aristotle have thought of his dancing elephants if he
had seen some of the elephants who perform to-day? image

Anecdote XXXVI. A Providential Safe Conduct

A traveller gives a singular anecdote of a lion, which he says was
related to him by very credible persons. About the year 1614 or 1615,
two Christian slaves at Morocco made their escape, travelling by night,
and hiding themselves in the tops of trees during the day, their Arab
pursuers frequently passing by them. One night, while pursuing their
journey, they were much astonished and alarmed to see a great lion close
by them, who walked when they walked, and stood still when they stood. Thinking this a safe conduct sent to them by Providence, they took
courage, and travelled in the daytime in company with the lion. The
horsemen who had been sent in pursuit came up, and would have seized
upon them, but the lion interposed, and they were suffered to pass on. Every day these poor fugitives met with some one or other of the human
race who wanted to seize them, but the lion was their protector until
they reached the sea coast in safety, when he left them. image

Anecdote XXXVII. A Generous Revenge

A young man, desirous of getting rid of his dog, took it along with
him to the river. He hired a boat, and rowing into the stream, threw the
animal in. The poor creature attempted to climb up the side of the boat,
but his master, whose intention was to drown him, constantly pushed him
back with the oar. In doing this, he fell himself into the water, and
would certainly have been drowned, had not the dog, as soon as he saw
his master struggling in the stream, suffered the boat to float away,
and held him above water till assistance arrived, and his life was
saved. image

Anecdote XXXVIII. Are Beasts mere Machines

A gentleman one day talking with a friend maintained that beasts were
mere machines, and had no sort of reason to direct them; and that when
they cried or made a noise, it was only one of the wheels of the clock
or machine that made it. The friend, who was of a different opinion,
replied, I have now in my kitchen two turnspits, who take their turns
regularly every other day to get into the wheel; one of them, not liking
his employment, hid himself on the day that he should work, so that his
companion was forced to mount the wheel in his stead, but crying and
wagging his tail, he made a sign for those in attendance to follow him.