image

Anecdote XL. Ostrich Riding

A gentleman tells how, during the time of his residence at Podor, a
French factory on the banks of the river Niger, there were two
ostriches, though young, of gigantic size, which afforded him a very
remarkable sight. They were, he says, so tame, that two little blacks
mounted both together on the back of the largest. No sooner did he feel
their weight, than he began to run as fast as possible, and carried them
several times round the village, as it was impossible to stop him
otherwise than by obstructing the passage. This sight pleased me so
much, that I wished it to be repeated, and to try their strength,
directed a full-grown negro to mount the smallest, and two others the
largest. This burthen did not seem at all disproportionate to their
strength. At first they went at a tolerably sharp trot, but when they
became heated a little, they expanded their wings as though to catch the
wind, and moved with such fleetness, that they scarcely seemed to touch
the ground. Most people have, at one time or another, seen a partridge
run; and consequently know that there is no man whatever able to keep up
with it; and it is easy to imagine, that if this bird had a longer step,
its speed would be considerably augmented. The ostrich moves like the
partridge, with this advantage; and I am satisfied that those I am
speaking of would have distanced the fleetest racehorses that were ever
bred in England. It is true they would not hold out so long as a horse;
but they would undoubtedly go over a given space in less time. I have
frequently beheld this sight, which is capable of giving one an idea of
the prodigious strength of an ostrich, and of showing what use it might
be of, had we but the method of breaking and managing it as we do a
horse.

image

Anecdote XLI. A Choice Retaliation

A tame elephant kept by a merchant was suffered to go at large. The
animal used to walk about the streets in as quiet and familiar a manner
as any of the inhabitants, and delighted much in visiting the shops,
particularly those which sold herbs and fruit, where he was well
received, except by a couple of brutal cobblers, who, without any cause,
took offence at the generous creature, and once or twice attempted to
wound his proboscis with their awls. The noble animal, who knew it was
beneath him to crush them, did not disdain to chastise them by other
means. He filled his large trunk with a considerable quantity of water,
not of the cleanest quality, and advancing to them as usual, covered
them at once with a dirty flood. The fools were laughed at, and the
punishment applauded.