The fugitive crept in at a low aperture, dragging
his stores along. When he reached a wider and loftier expanse he found
some obstacle before him. He drew his dirk, but unwilling to strike,
lest he might take the life of a companion in seclusion, he stooped
down, and discovered a goat with her kid stretched on the ground. He
soon perceived that the animal was in great pain, and feeling her body
and limbs, ascertained that her leg was fractured. He bound it up with
his garter, and offered her a share of the bread beside him; but she
stretched out her tongue, as if to apprise him that her mouth was
parched with thirst. He gave her water, which she took readily, and then
ate some bread. After midnight he ventured out of the cave: all was
still. He plucked an armful of grass and cut tender twigs, which the
goat accepted with manifestations of joy and thankfulness. The prisoner
derived much comfort in having a living creature in this dungeon, and he
caressed and fed her tenderly. The man who was entrusted to bring him
supplies fell sick; and when another attempted to penetrate into the
cavern the goat furiously opposed him, presenting her horns in all
directions, till the fugitive, hearing a disturbance, came forward. This
new attendant giving the watchword removed every doubt of his good
intentions, and the amazon of the recess obeyed her benefactor in
permitting him to advance. The gentleman was convinced that had a band
of military attacked the cavern, his grateful patient would have died in
his defence. image

Anecdote XLIV. A Mother Watching her Young

The following singular instance of the far-sighted watchfulness of
the turkey-hen over her young is narrated by a French priest. I have
heard, he says, a turkey-hen, when at the head of her brood, send
forth the most hideous scream, without being able to perceive the cause;
her young ones, however, immediately when the warning was given skulked
under the bushes, the grass, or whatever else seemed to offer shelter or
protection. They even stretched themselves at full length on the ground,
and continued motionless as if dead. In the meantime the mother, with
her eyes directed upwards, continued her cries and screaming as before. On looking up in the direction in which she seemed to gaze I discovered
a black spot just under the clouds, but was unable at first to determine
what it was; however, it soon appeared to be a bird of prey, though at
first at too great a distance to be distinguished. I have seen one of
those animals continue in this agitated state, and her whole brood
pinned down, as it were, to the ground for four hours together, whilst
their formidable foe has taken its circuits, has mounted and hovered
directly over their heads; at last upon his disappearing the parent
changed her note and sent forth another cry, which in an instant gave
life to the whole trembling tribe, and they all flocked round her with
expressions of pleasure, as if conscious of their happy escape from
danger.

image

Anecdote XLV. Concerts of Animals

An abbot, a man of wit, and skilled in the construction of new
musical instruments, was ordered by Louis XI., King of France, more in
jest than in earnest, to procure him a concert of swines' voices. The
abbot said that the thing could doubtless be done, but that it would
take a good deal of money. The king ordered that he should have whatever
he required for the purpose. The abbot then wrought a thing as singular
as ever was seen; for out of a great number of hogs of several ages
which he got together, and placed under a tent, or pavilion, covered
with velvet, before which he had a table of wood painted, with a certain
number of keys, he made an organical instrument, and as he played upon
the said keys with little spikes, which pricked the hogs, he made them
cry in such order and consonance, he highly delighted the king and all
his company. image

Anecdote XLVI.