Travellers

An innkeeper once sent, as a present by the carrier, to a friend a
dog and cat tied up in a bag, who had been companions more than ten
months. A short time after the dog and cat took their departure together
and returned to their old habitation, a distance of thirteen miles. They
jogged along the road side by side, and on one occasion the dog
gallantly defended his fellow-traveller from the attack of another dog
they met. image

Anecdote XLVII. The Watch Dog

A thief who had broken into the shop of Cellini, the Florentine
artist, and was breaking open the caskets in order to come at some
jewels, was arrested in his progress by a dog, against whom he found it
a difficult matter to defend himself with a sword. The faithful animal
ran to the room where the journeymen slept, but as they did not seem to
hear him barking he drew away the bedclothes, and pulling them
alternately by the arms, forcibly awaked them; then barking very loud he
showed the way to the thief, and went on before; but the men would not
follow him, and at last locked their door. The dog having lost all hopes
of the assistance of these men undertook the task alone, and ran
downstairs; he could not find the villain in the shop, but immediately
rushing into the street came up with him, and tearing off his cloak,
would have treated him according to his deserts if the fellow had not
called to some tailors in the neighbourhood, and begged they would
assist him against a mad dog; the tailors believing him came to his
assistance, and compelled the poor animal to retire. image

Anecdote XLVIII. A Shrewd Guesser

A French officer, more remarkable for his birth and spirit than his
wealth, had served the Venetian republic for some years with great
valour and fidelity, but had not met with that preferment which he
merited. One day he waited on a nobleman whom he had often solicited in
vain, but on whose friendship he had still some reliance. The reception
he met with was cool and mortifying; the nobleman turned his back upon
the necessitous veteran, and left him to find his way to the street
through a suite of apartments magnificently furnished. He passed them
lost in thought, till, casting his eyes on a sumptuous sideboard, where
a valuable collection of Venetian glass, polished and formed in the
highest degree of perfection, stood on a damask cloth as a preparation
for a splendid entertainment, he took hold of a corner of the linen, and
turning to a faithful English mastiff which always accompanied him, said
to the animal, in a kind of absence of mind, Here, my poor old friend;
you see how these haughty tyrants indulge themselves, and yet how we are
treated! The poor dog looked his master in the face, and gave tokens
that he understood him. The master walked on, but the mastiff slackened
his pace, and laying hold of the damask cloth with his teeth, at one
hearty pull brought all the glass on the sideboard in shivers to the
ground, thus depriving the insolent noble of his favourite exhibition of
splendour. image

Anecdote XLIX. A Tame Colony

A well-known traveller, in a description of the Island of Tristan
d'Acunha, states that the animals found on this solitary spot were so
tame, that it was necessary to clear a path through the birds which were
reposing on the rocks, by kicking them aside. One species of seal did
not move at all when struck or pelted, and at length some of the company
amused themselves by mounting them, and riding them into the sea! image

Anecdote L. An Usurper Punished

Some years ago a sparrow had early in spring taken possession of an
old swallow's nest, and had laid some eggs in it, when the original
builder and owner of the castle made her appearance, and claimed
possession. The sparrow, firmly seated, resisted the claim of the
swallow; a smart battle ensued, in which the swallow was joined by its
mate, and during the conflict by several of their comrades. All the
efforts of the assembled swallows to dislodge the usurper were, however,
unsuccessful. Finding themselves completely foiled in this object, it
would seem that they had held a council of war to consult on ulterior
measures; and the resolution they came to shows that with no ordinary
degree of ingenuity some very lofty considerations of right and justice
were combined in their deliberations. Since the sparrow could not be
dispossessed of the nest, the next question with them appears to have
been, how he could be otherwise punished for his unlawful occupation of
a property unquestionably belonging to its original constructor. The
council were unanimous in thinking that nothing short of the death of
the intruder could atone for so heinous an offence; and having so
decided, they proceeded to put their sentence into execution in the
following very extraordinary manner. Quitting the scene of the contest
for a time, they returned with accumulated numbers, each bearing a beak
full of building materials; and without any further attempt to beat out
the sparrow, they instantly set to work and built up the entrance into
the nest, enclosing the sparrow within the clay tenement, and leaving
her to perish in the stronghold she had so bravely defended. image

Anecdote LI. The Rights of Hospitality

A native Moor who went to hunt the lion, having proceeded far into a
forest, happened to meet with two lion's whelps that came to caress him;
the hunter stopped with the little animals, and waiting for the coming
of the sire or the dam, took out his breakfast, and gave them a part. The lioness arrived unperceived by the huntsman, so that he had not
time, or perhaps wanted the courage, to take to his gun. After having
for some time looked at the man that was thus feasting her young, the
lioness went away, and soon after returned, bearing with her a sheep,
which she came and laid at the huntsman's feet. The Moor, thus become one of the family, took this occasion of making
a good meal, skinned the sheep, made a fire, and roasted a part, giving
the entrails to the young. The lion in his turn came also; and, as if
respecting the rights of hospitality, showed no tokens whatever of
ferocity. Their guest the next day, having finished his provisions,
returned, and came to a resolution never more to kill any of those
animals, the noble generosity of which he had so fully proved. He
stroked and caressed the whelps at taking leave of them, and the dam and
sire accompanied him till he was safely out of the forest. image

Anecdote LII.