A Grateful Lioness

A Dreadful famine raged at Buenos Ayres, yet the governor, afraid of
giving the Indians a habit of spilling Spanish blood, forbade the
inhabitants on pain of death to go into the fields in search of relief,
placing soldiers at all the outlets to the country, with orders to fire
upon those who should attempt to transgress his orders. A woman,
however, called Maldonata, was artful enough to elude the vigilance of
the guards, and escape. After wandering about the country for a long
time, she sought for shelter in a cavern, but she had scarcely entered
it when she espied a lioness, the sight of which terrified her. She was,
however, soon quieted by the caresses of the animal, who, in return for
a service rendered her, showed every sign of affection and friendliness. She never returned from searching after her own daily subsistence
without laying a portion of it at the feet of Maldonata, until her
whelps being strong enough to walk abroad, she took them out with her
and never returned. Some time after Maldonata fell into the hands of the Spaniards, and
being brought back to Buenos Ayres on the charge of having left the city
contrary to orders, the governor, a man of cruelty, condemned the
unfortunate woman to a death which none but the most cruel tyrant could
have thought of. He ordered some soldiers to take her into the country
and leave her tied to a tree, either to perish by hunger, or to be torn
to pieces by wild beasts, as he expected. Two days after, he sent the
same soldiers to see what was become of her; when, to their great
surprise, they found her alive and unhurt, though surrounded by lions
and tigers, which a lioness at her feet kept at some distance. As soon
as the lioness perceived the soldiers, she retired a little, and enabled
them to unbind Maldonata, who related to them the history of this
lioness, whom she knew to be the same she had formerly assisted in the
cavern. On the soldiers taking Maldonata away, the lioness fawned upon
her as unwilling to part. The soldiers reported what they had seen to
the commander, who could not but pardon a woman who had been so
singularly protected, without appearing more inhuman than lions
themselves. image

Anecdote LIII. A Good Finder

One day a tradesman, walking with a friend, offered to wager that if
he were to hide a five-shilling piece in the dust, his dog would
discover and bring it to him. The wager was accepted, and the piece of
money marked and secreted. When the two had proceeded some distance, the
tradesman called to his dog that he had lost something, and ordered him
to seek it. The dog immediately turned back, and his master and his
companion pursued their walk. Meanwhile a traveller, driving in a small
chaise, perceived the piece of money which his horse had kicked from its
hiding-place, alighted, took it up, and drove to his inn. The dog had
just reached the spot in search of the lost piece, when the stranger
picked it up. He followed the chaise, went into the inn. Having scented
out the coin in the pocket of the traveller, he leaped up at him
incessantly. Supposing him to be some dog that had lost his master, the
traveller regarded his movements as marks of fondness; and as the animal
was handsome, determined to keep him. He gave him a good supper, and on
retiring took him with him to his chamber. No sooner had he pulled off
his breeches than they were seized by the dog; the owner, conceiving
that he wanted to play with them, took them away. The animal began to
bark at the door, which the traveller opened, thinking the dog wanted to
go out. The dog snatched up the breeches and away he flew, the traveller
posting after him with his nightcap on. The dog ran full speed to his
master's house, followed by the stranger, who accused the dog of robbing
him. Sir, said the master, my dog is a very faithful creature; and if
he ran away with your breeches, it is because you have in them money
which does not belong to you. The traveller became still more angry. Compose yourself, sir, rejoined the other, smiling; without doubt
there is in your purse a five-shilling piece which you picked up in the
road, and which I hid knowing my dog would bring it back. This is the
cause of the robbery which he has committed upon you. The stranger
acknowledged the truth of the tradesman's statement, delivered up the
coin, and departed. image

Anecdote LIV. Musical Seals

Seals have a very delicate sense of hearing, and are much delighted
with music. A gentleman, in his account of a voyage to Spitzbergen,
mentions that the captain of the ship's son, who was fond of playing on
the violin, never failed to have a numerous auditory when in the seas
frequented by these animals; and he has seen them follow the ship for
miles when any person was playing on deck. image

Anecdote LV. A Sly Couple

A gentleman in the county of Stirling kept a greyhound and a pointer,
and being fond of coursing, the pointer was accustomed to find the
hares, and the greyhound to catch them. When the season was over, it was
found that the dogs were in the habit of going out by themselves, and
killing hares for their own amusement. To prevent this, a large iron
ring was fastened to the pointer's neck by a leather collar, and hung
down so as to prevent the dog from running, or jumping over dykes,
&c. The animals, however, continued to stroll out to the fields
together; and one day the gentleman, suspecting that all was not right,
resolved to watch them, and to his surprise, found that the moment when
they thought that they were unobserved, the greyhound took up the iron
ring in his mouth, and carrying it, they set off to the hills, and began
to search for hares as usual. They were followed, and it was observed,
that whenever the pointer scented the hare, the ring was dropped, and
the greyhound stood ready to pounce upon poor puss the moment the other
drove her from her form, but that he uniformly returned to assist his
companion after he had caught his prey. image

Anecdote LVI. A Sense of Ridicule

Persons who have the management of elephants have often observed that
they know very well when any one is ridiculing them, and that they very
often revenge themselves when they have an opportunity. A painter wished
to draw an elephant in the menagerie at Paris in an extraordinary
attitude, which was with his trunk lifted up, and his mouth open. An
attendant on the painter, to make the elephant preserve the position,
threw fruits in his mouth, and often pretended to throw them without
doing so. The animal became irritated, and as if knowing that the
painter was to blame rather than his servant, turned to him, and dashed
a quantity of water from his trunk over the paper on which the painter
was sketching his distorted portrait. image

Anecdote LVII. The Tame Seagull

Many years ago a gentleman had accidentally caught a sea-gull, whose
wings he cut, and put it into his garden. The bird remained in that
situation for several years, and being kindly treated, became so
familiar as to come at call to be fed at the kitchen door. It was known
by the name of Willie. This bird became at last so tame that no pains
were taken to preserve it, and its wings having grown to full length it
flew away, joined the other gulls on the beach, and came back, from time
to time, to pay a visit to the house. When its companions left the
country at the usual season, Willie accompanied them, much to the regret
of the family. To their great joy, however, it returned next season; and
with its usual familiarity came to its old haunt, where it was welcomed
and fed very liberally. In this way it went and returned for forty
years, without intermission, and kept up its acquaintance in the
most cordial manner; for while in the country it visited them almost
daily, answered to its name like any domestic animal, and ate almost out
of the hand. One year, however, very near the period of its final
disappearance, Willie did not pay his respects to the family for eight
or ten days after the general flock of gulls were upon the coast, and
great was the lamentation for his loss, as it was feared he was dead;
but to the surprise and joy of the family, a servant one morning came
running into the breakfast-room in ecstasy, announcing that Willie had
returned. The whole company rose from the table to welcome Willie. Food
was soon supplied in abundance, and Willie with his usual frankness ate
of it heartily, and was as tame as any barn-yard fowl about the house. In a year or two afterwards this grateful bird discontinued his visits
for ever.