image

Anecdote LVIII. Maternal Affection

Whilst a ship on a voyage of discovery to the North Pole was locked
in the ice, one morning the man at the masthead reported that three
bears were making their way towards the ship. They had, no doubt, been
invited by the scent of some blubber of a sea-horse which the crew was
burning on the ice at the time of their approach. They proved to be a
she bear and her two cubs; but the cubs were nearly as large as the dam. They ran eagerly to the fire, and drew out part of the flesh that
remained unconsumed, and ate it voraciously. The crew threw great lumps
of the flesh which they had still left upon the ice, which the old bear
fetched away singly, laying every lump before the cubs as she brought
it, and dividing it, gave each a share, reserving but a small portion to
herself. As she was fetching away the last piece, they shot both the
cubs dead, and wounded the dam, but not mortally. It would have drawn
tears of pity from any but the most unfeeling to have marked the
affectionate concern of this poor animal in the dying moments of her
expiring young. Though sorely wounded, she crawled to the place where
they lay, carrying a lump of flesh she had just fetched away, tore it in
pieces, and laid it down before them; when she saw that they refused to
eat, she laid her paws first upon one, then upon the other, and
endeavoured to raise them up, making at the same time the most pitiable
moans. Finding she could not stir them, she went off, and when she had
got at some distance, looked back and moaned; and that not availing to
entice them away, she returned, and smelling round them, began to lick
their wounds. She went off a second time, and having crawled a few
paces, looked again behind her, and for some time stood moaning. But her
cubs not rising to follow her, she returned, and with signs of
inexpressible fondness went round them, pawing them successively. Finding at last that they were cold and lifeless, she raised her head
towards the ship, and growled a curse upon the destroyers, which they
returned with a volley of musket-balls. She fell between her cubs, and
died licking their wounds. image

Anecdote LIX. The Pig Pointer

A sow, which was a thin, long-legged animal (one of the ugliest of
the New Forest breed), when very young conceived so great a partiality
to some pointer puppies that a gamekeeper upon a neighbouring estate was
breaking, that it played, and often came to feed with them. From this
circumstance it occurred to the gamekeeper that, having broken many a
dog as obstinate as a pig, he would try if he could not also succeed in
breaking a pig. The little animal would often go out with the puppies to
some distance from home; and he enticed it farther by a sort of pudding
made of barley-meal, which he carried in one of his pockets. The other
he filled with stones, which he threw at the pig whenever she
misbehaved, as he was not able to catch and correct her in the same
manner he did his dogs. He found the animal tractable, and soon taught
her what he wished by this mode of reward and punishment. They were
frequently seen out together, when the sow quartered her ground as
regularly as any pointer, stood when she came on game (having an
excellent nose), and backed other dogs as well as he ever saw a pointer. When she came on the cold scent of game, she slackened her trot, and
gradually dropped her ears and tail, till she was certain, and then fell
down on her knees. So staunch was she, that she would frequently remain
five minutes and upwards on her point. As soon as the game rose, she
always returned to her master, grunting very loudly for her reward of
pudding if it was not immediately given to her. image

Anecdote LX. Infant Fascination

A little girl about three years of age was observed for a number of
days to go to a considerable distance from the house with a piece of
bread which she obtained from her mother. The circumstance attracted the
attention of the mother, who desired her husband to follow the child,
and observe what she did with it. On coming to the child, he found her
engaged in feeding several snakes, called yellow heads, a species of
rattlesnake. He immediately took her away and proceeded to the house for
his gun, and returning, killed two of them at one shot, and another a
few days after. The child called these reptiles in the manner of calling
chickens; and when her father observed, if she continued the practice
they would bite her, the child replied, No, father, they won't bite me;
they only eat the bread I give them.

image

Anecdote LXI. A Domesticated Seal

A gentleman once succeeded in taming a seal. It appeared to possess
all the sagacity of the dog, lived in its master's house, and ate from
his hand. He usually took it with him in his fishing excursions, upon
which occasions it afforded no small entertainment. When thrown into the
water, it would follow for miles the track of the boat; and although
thrust back by the oars, it never relinquished its purpose. Indeed, it
struggled so hard to regain its seat, that one would imagine its
fondness for its master had entirely overcome the natural predilection
for its native element. image

Anecdote LXII.