Retribution

In a park a fawn, drinking, was suddenly pounced upon by one of the
swans, which pulled the animal into the water, and held it under until
quite drowned. The atrocious action was observed by the other deer in
the park, and did not long go unrevenged; for shortly after this very
swan, which had hitherto never been molested by the deer, was singled
out when on land, and furiously attacked by a herd, which surrounded and
presently killed the offender. image

Anecdote LXIII. Strange Rooks

In a large north of England town a pair of strange rooks, after an
unsuccessful attempt to effect a lodgment in a rookery at a little
distance from the Exchange, were compelled to abandon the attempt, and
to take refuge on the spire of a building; and although constantly
molested by other rooks, they built their nest on the top of the vane,
and there reared a brood of young ones, undisturbed by the noise of the
populace below them. The nest and its inmates were of course turned
about by every change of the wind. For ten years they continued to build
their nest in the same place, soon after which the spire was taken
down. image

Anecdote LXIV. A Singular Foster Mother

On an estate in Scotland a terrier had a litter of whelps, which were
immediately taken from her and drowned. The unfortunate mother was quite
disconsolate, until, a few weeks after, she perceived a brood of
ducklings, which she immediately seized and carried to her lair, where
she retained them, following them out and in with the greatest care, and
nursing them after her own fashion, with the most affectionate anxiety. When the ducklings, following their natural instinct, went into the
water, their foster-mother exhibited the utmost alarm; and as soon as
they returned to land, she snatched them up in her mouth, and ran home
with them. What adds to the singularity of this circumstance is, that
the same animal, when deprived of a litter of puppies the year
preceding, seized two cock-chickens, which she reared with the like care
she bestows upon her present family. When the young cocks began to try
their voices, their foster-mother was as much annoyed as she now seems
to be by the swimming of the ducklings–and never failed to repress their
attempts at crowing. image

Anecdote LXV. The Shepherds Dog

James Hogg, the shepherd poet, had a dog named Sirrah, who was for
many years his sole companion. He was, the shepherd says, the best dog
he ever saw, in spite of his surly manners and unprepossessing
appearance. The first time he saw the dog, a drover was leading him by a
rope, and, although hungry and lean, I thought, Hogg tells us, I
discovered a sort of sullen intelligence in his face, so I gave the
drover a guinea for him. I believe there never was a guinea so well laid
out. He was scarcely then a year old, and knew nothing of herding; but
as soon as he discovered that it was his duty to do so, I can never
forget with what eagerness he learned. He would try every way till he
found out what I wanted him to do; and when once I made him to
understand a direction, he never forgot or mistook it again.

About seven hundred lambs, which were at once under Mr. Hogg's care,
broke up at midnight, and scampered off in three divisions across the
hills, in spite of all that the shepherd and an assistant lad could do
to keep them together. Sirrah, cried the shepherd, in great
affliction, my man, they're a' awa. The night was so dark that he did
not see Sirrah; but the faithful animal had heard his master's words,
and without more ado he set off in quest of the flock. The shepherd and
his companion spent the whole night in scouring the hills, but of
neither the lambs nor Sirrah could they obtain the slightest trace. We
had nothing for it, says the shepherd, but to return to our master,
and inform him that we had lost his whole flock of lambs. On our way
home, however, we discovered a body of lambs at the bottom of a deep
ravine, and Sirrah standing in front of them, looking all around for
some relief. We concluded that it was one of the divisions of the lambs
which Sirrah had been unable to manage until he came to that commanding
situation. But what was our astonishment when we discovered by degrees
that not one was wanting! How he had got all the divisions collected in
the dark is beyond my comprehension. I never felt so grateful to any
creature below the sun as I did to my honest Sirrah that morning.

image

Anecdote LXVI. Foraging

A constable once made a complaint before a bench of London
magistrates against a horse for stealing hay. The complainant stated
that the horse came regularly every night of its own accord, and without
any attendant, to the coach-stands in St. George's, fully satisfied his
appetite, and then galloped away. He defied the whole of the parish
officers to apprehend him; for if they attempted to go near him while he
was eating, he would throw up his heels and kick at them, or run at
them, and if they did not go out of the way, he would bite them. The
constable therefore thought it best to represent the case to the
magistrates. One of the Magistrates: Well, Mr. Constable, if you should
be annoyed again by this animal in the execution of your duty, you may
apprehend him if you can, and bring him before us to answer your
complaints.

image

Anecdote LXVII. Going to Market

A butcher and cattle dealer had a dog which he usually took with him
when he drove cattle to the market, at a town some nine miles distant
from his home, to be sold, and who displayed uncommon dexterity in
managing them. At last, so convinced was the master of the sagacity, as
well as the fidelity of his dog, that he made a wager that he would
entrust him with a fixed number of sheep and oxen to drive alone to
market. It was stipulated that no person should be within sight or
hearing, who had the least control over the dog; nor was any spectator
to interfere, or be within a quarter of a mile. On the day of trial, the
dog proceeded with his business in the most dexterous and steady manner;
and although he had frequently to drive his charge through the herds who
were grazing, yet he never lost one, but conducting them into the very
yard to which he was used to drive them when with his master, he
significantly delivered them up to the person appointed to receive them,
by barking at the door. What more particularly marked the dog's sagacity
was, that when the path the herd travelled lay through a spot where
others were grazing, he would run forward, stop his own drove, and then
driving the others from each side of the path, collect his scattered
charge and proceed. He was several times afterwards thus sent alone for
the amusement of the curious or the convenience of his master, and
always acquitted himself in the same adroit and intelligent manner.