image

Anecdote LXVIII. The Lion and his Keeper

In a large continental menagerie there was a lion called Danco, whose
cage was in want of some repairs. His keeper desired a carpenter to set
about it, but when the workman came and saw the lion, he started back
with terror. The keeper entered the animal's cage, and led him to the
upper part of it, while the lower was refitting. He there amused himself
for some time playing with the lion, and being wearied, he soon fell
asleep. The carpenter, fully relying upon the vigilance of the keeper,
pursued his work with rapidity, and when he had finished, he called him
to see what was done. The keeper made no answer. Having repeatedly
called in vain, he began to feel alarmed at his situation, and he
determined to go to the upper part of the cage, where, looking through
the railing, he saw the lion and the keeper sleeping side by side. He
immediately uttered a loud cry; the lion, awakened by the noise, started
up and stared at the carpenter with an eye of fury, and then, placing
his paw on the breast of his keeper, lay down to sleep again. At length
the keeper was awakened by some of the attendants, and he did not appear
in the least apprehensive on account of the situation in which he found
himself, but shook the lion by the paw, and then gently conducted him to
his former residence. image

Anecdote LXIX. Immovable Fidelity

A dog, between the breed of a mastiff and a bull-dog, belonging to a
chimney-sweeper, laid, according to his master's orders, on a soot-bag,
which he had placed inadvertently almost in the middle of a narrow back
street, in a town in the south of England. A loaded cart passing by, the
driver desired the dog to move out of the way.