On refusing he was
scolded, then beaten, first gently, and afterwards with the smart
application of the cart-whip; all to no purpose. The fellow, with an
oath, threatened to drive over the dog–he did so, and the faithful
animal, in endeavouring to arrest the progress of the wheel by biting
it, was crushed to pieces. image

Anecdote LXX. Tame Hares

The hare is scarcely a domestic animal; yet we have an account of one
who was so domesticated as to feed from the hand, lay under a chair in a
common sitting-room, and appear in every other respect as easy and
comfortable in its situation as a lapdog. It now and then went out into
the garden, but after regaling itself with the fresh air, always
returned to the house as its proper habitation. Its usual companions
were a greyhound and spaniel, with whom it spent its evenings, the whole
three sporting and sleeping together on the same hearth. What makes the
circumstance more remarkable is, that the greyhound and spaniel were
both so fond of hare-hunting, that they used often to go out coursing
together, without any person accompanying them; they were like the
sly couple, of whose devotion to the chase an amusing
instance has been already recorded. A traveller once brought a young hare to such a degree of frolicsome
familiarity, that it would run and jump about his sofa and bed; leap
upon, and pat him with its fore feet; or whilst he was reading, knock
the book out of his hands, as if to claim, like a fondled child, the
exclusive preference of his attention. image

Anecdote LXXI. A Grateful Return

A favourite house-dog, left to the care of its master's servants,
while he was himself away, would have been starved by them if it had not
had recourse to the kitchen of a friend of its master's, which in better
days it had occasionally visited. On the return of the master it enjoyed
plenty at home, and stood in no further need of the liberality it
experienced; but still it did not forget that hospitable kitchen where
it had found a resource in adversity. A few days after, the dog fell in
with a duck, which, as he found in no private pond, he probably
concluded to be no private property. He snatched up the duck in his
teeth, carried it to the kitchen where he had been so hospitably fed,
laid it at the cook's feet, with many polite movements of the tail, and
then scampered off with much seeming complacency at having given this
testimony of his grateful sense of favours. image

Anecdote LXXII. Assisting the Aged

A captain of cavalry in a French regiment mentions that a horse
belonging to his company, being from age unable to eat his hay or grind
his oats, was fed for two months by two horses on his right and left,
who ate with him. These two horses, drawing the hay out of the rack,
chewed it, and then put it before the old horse, and did the same with
the oats, which he was then able to eat. image

Anecdote LXXIII. Oyster Opening

A well-known traveller relates a circumstance concerning the
orang-otang in its wild state, which is indicative of very considerable
powers, both of reflection and invention. When the fruits on the
mountains are exhausted, they will frequently descend to the sea-coast,
where they feed on various species of shell-fish, but in particular on a
large sort of oyster, which commonly lies open on the shore. Fearful,
he says, of putting in their paws, lest the oyster should close and
crush them, they insert a stone as a wedge within the shell; this
prevents it from closing, and they then drag out their prey, and devour
it at leisure.

image

Anecdote LXXIV. Sonnini and his Cat

M.