Soliciting Succour

A party of a ship's crew being sent ashore on a part of the coast of
India, for the purpose of cutting wood for the ship, one of the men
having strayed from the rest was greatly frightened by the appearance of
a large lioness, who made towards him; but on her coming up, she lay
down at his feet, and looked very earnestly first at him, and then at a
tree a short distance off. After repeating her looks several times, she
arose, and proceeded onwards to the tree, looking back several times, as
if wishing the man to follow her. At length he ventured, and coming to
the tree, he perceived a huge baboon with two young cubs in her arms,
which he supposed were those of the lioness, as she couched down like a
cat, and seemed to eye them very steadfastly. The man being afraid to
ascend the tree, decided on cutting it down, and having his axe with
him, he set actively to work, when the lioness seemed most attentive to
what he was doing. When the tree fell, she sprung upon the baboon, and
after tearing him in pieces, she turned round and licked the cubs for
some time. She then turned to the man and fawned round him, rubbing her
head against him in great fondness, and in token of her gratitude for
the service he had done her. After this, she took the cubs away one by
one, and the man returned to the ship. image

Anecdote LXXXIII. A Charitable Canary

A pair of goldfinches who had the misfortune to be captured, together
with their nest and six young ones, were placed in a double cage, with a
pair of canaries, which had a brood of young; there was a division of
wirework between the cages. At first the goldfinches seemed careless
about their young ones; but the cock canary, attracted by their cries,
forced itself through a flaw in the wires, and began to feed them; an
operation which it continued regularly, until the goldfinches undertook
the office themselves, and rendered the humanity of the canary no longer
necessary. image

Anecdote LXXXIV.