Forced to
seek concealment in a coppice, an owl settled on the bush under which he
was hid. At the sight of this animal the prince's pursuers never thought
of searching the spot, conceiving it impossible that such a bird would
perch where any human being was concealed. Jengis escaped, and ever
after his countrymen held the white owl sacred, and every one wore a
plume of its feathers on his head. The Kalmucs continue the custom to
this day, at all their great festivals; and some tribes have an idol in
the form of an owl, to which they fasten the real legs of this bird. image

Anecdote LXXXIX. A Refugee Squirrel

A squirrel, whose bad luck it was to be captured, was lodged for safe
custody in a trap used for taking rats alive. Here he remained for
several weeks, till at length, panting for liberty, he contrived to make
his escape through a window, and repaired once more to his native
fields. The family in which he had been a sportive inmate, were not a
little vexed at the loss of their little favourite, and the servant was
ordered in the evening of the same day to remove the trap, that they
might no longer be reminded of their loss; but on proceeding to
discharge his duty, he found to his surprise that the squirrel, all wet
and ruffled by the storm, had reassumed his station, and again taken up
his lodgings in a corner of the trap. image

Anecdote XC. Retaliation

A wild stork was brought by a farmer into his poultry yard to be the
companion of a tame one, which he had long kept there; but the tame
stork, disliking a rival, fell upon the poor stranger, and beat him so
unmercifully that he was compelled to take wing, and with some
difficulty escaped. About four months afterwards, however, he returned
to the poultry yard, recovered of his wounds, and attended by three
other storks, who no sooner alighted, than they all together fell upon
the tame stork, and killed him. image

Anecdote XCI.