A Newsman Extraordinary

One of the carriers of a large newspaper having become indisposed,
his son took his place; but not knowing the subscribers he was to
supply, he took for his guide a dog which had usually attended his
father. The animal trotted on a-head of the boy, and stopped at every
door where the paper was in use to be left, without making a single
omission or mistake. image

Anecdote XCII. The Bear Cubs

A female bear, with two cubs, approached near a whaler, and was shot. The cubs not attempting to escape, were taken alive. These animals,
though at first evidently very unhappy, became at length in some measure
reconciled to their situation, and being tolerably tame, were allowed
occasionally to go at large about the deck. While the ship was moored to
a floe, a few days after they were taken, one of them having a rope
fastened round his neck, was thrown overboard. It immediately swam to
the ice, got upon it, and attempted to escape. Finding itself, however,
detained by the rope, it endeavoured to disengage itself in the
following ingenious way. Near the edge of the floe was a crack in the
ice of considerable length, but only eighteen inches or two feet wide,
and three or four feet deep. To this spot the bear turned; and when, on
crossing the chasm, the bight of the rope fell into it, he placed
himself across the opening; then suspending himself by his hind feet,
with a leg on each side, he dropped his head and most part of his body
into the chasm; and with a foot applied to each side of the neck,
attempted for some minutes to push the rope over his head. Finding this
scheme ineffectual, he removed to the main ice, and running with great
impetuosity from the ship, gave a remarkable pull on the rope; then
going backward a few steps, he repeated the jerk. At length, after
repeated attempts to escape this way, every failure of which he
announced by a significant growl, he yielded himself to his hard
necessity, and lay down on the ice in angry and sullen silence. image

Anecdote XCIII. Noble Perseverance

Elephants were, of old, employed in India in the launching of ships. It is related of one, that, being directed to force a very large vessel
into the water, the work proved superior to its strength; his master,
with sarcastic tone, bid the keeper take away the lazy beast, and bring
another: the poor animal instantly repeated his efforts, fractured his
skull, and died on the spot. image

Anecdote XCIV. The Catcher Caught

During a sudden inundation of the Rhine, a hare, unable to escape
through the water to an eminence, climbed up a tree. One of the boatmen
rowing about to assist the unfortunate inhabitants, observing puss,
rowed up to the tree, and mounted it, eager for the game, without
properly fastening his boat. The terrified hare, on the approach of its
pursuer, sprang from the branch into the boat, which thus set in motion
floated away, leaving its owner in the tree in dread of being washed
away by the current. After several hours' anxiety, he was perceived, and
taken off by some of his companions. image

Anecdote XCV. Deceiving the Fowler

A young pointer, out with his master hunting, ran on a brood of very
small partridges. The old bird cried, fluttered, and ran trembling along
just before the dog's nose, till she had drawn him to a considerable
distance; when she took wing and flew farther off, but not out of the
field. On this the dog returned nearly to the place where the young ones
lay concealed in the grass; which the old bird no sooner perceived, than
she flew back again, settled first before the dog's nose, and a second
time acted the same part, rolling and tumbling about till she drew off
his attention from the brood, and thus succeeded in preserving them. image

Anecdote XCVI. Old Habits

An eminent Scotch lawyer, having cause to visit London, decided to
perform the journey on horseback in preference to posting, for this was
before the days of railways. He therefore purchased a horse before
starting, and on his arrival at the metropolis, following the usual
custom, disposed of his nag, deciding to purchase another for the return
journey. When he had completed his business, and had decided to set out
for home, he went to Smithfield to purchase a horse. About dusk, a
handsome horse was offered to him at so cheap a rate, that he was led to
suspect the animal to be unsound; but as he could discover no blemish he
became the purchaser. Next morning he set out on his journey; his horse
had excellent paces, and the first few miles, while the road was well
frequented, our traveller spent in congratulating himself on his good
fortune. On Finchley Common the traveller met a clergyman driving a
one-horse chaise. There was nobody within sight, and the horse by his
manÅ“uvre plainly intimated what had been the profession of his former
master. Instead of passing the chaise, he laid his counter close up to
it, and stopped it, having no doubt that his rider would embrace so fair
an opportunity of exercising his vocation. The clergyman, under the same
mistake, produced his purse unasked, and assured the inoffensive and
surprised horseman that it was unnecessary to draw his pistol. The
traveller rallied his horse, with apologies to the gentleman, whom he
had unwillingly affrighted, and pursued his journey. The horse next made
the same suspicious approach to a coach, from the windows of which a
blunderbuss was levelled, with denunciations of death and destruction to
the rider, who was innocent of all offence in deed or word. In short,
after his life had been once or twice endangered by the suspicions to
which his horse's conduct gave rise, and his liberty as often threatened
by peace officers, who were disposed to apprehend him as a notorious
highwayman, he found himself obliged to part with the animal for a mere
trifle, and to purchase at a dearer rate a horse of less external figure
and action, but of better moral habits. image

Anecdote XCVII.