A Child Saved

A shepherd, in one of his excursions to look after his flock, took
with him one of his children, an infant of three years old. After
traversing his pastures for some time, attended by his dog, he found it
necessary to ascend a summit at some distance, to obtain a more
extensive view of his range. As the ascent was too fatiguing for the
child, he left him on a small plain at the bottom, with strict
injunctions not to stir from it till his return. Scarcely, however, had
he gained the summit, when the horizon was darkened by an impenetrable
mist. The anxious father instantly hastened back to find his child; but
owing to the unusual darkness, he missed his way. After a fruitless
search of many hours, he discovered that he had reached the bottom of
the valley, and was near his own cottage. To renew the search that night
was equally fruitless and dangerous; he was therefore compelled to go
home, although he had lost both his child and his dog, who had attended
him faithfully for many years. Next morning, by break of day, the
shepherd, accompanied by a band of his neighbours, set out in search of
his child; but after a day of fatigue, he was obliged to return home
disappointed. He found that the dog which he had lost the day before had
been to the cottage, and on receiving a piece of cake, had instantly
gone off again. For several successive days the shepherd renewed the
search, and on his return in the evening he found that the dog had been
home, and, on receiving his usual allowance of cake, had instantly
disappeared. Struck with this singular circumstance, he remained at home
one day; and when the dog, as usual, departed with his piece of cake, he
resolved to follow him, and find out the cause of this strange
procedure. The dog led the way to a cataract at some distance from the
spot where the shepherd had left his child. Down a rugged and almost
perpendicular descent the dog began, without
hesitation, to make his way, and at last disappeared by entering into a
cave, the mouth of which was almost level with the torrent. The shepherd
with difficulty followed; but, on entering the cave, what were his
emotions, when he beheld his infant eating with much satisfaction the
cake which the dog had just brought him, while the faithful animal stood
by, eyeing his young charge with the utmost complacency! The child had
apparently wandered to the brink of the precipice, and then either
fallen or scrambled down till he reached the cave. The dog had traced
him to the spot; and afterwards prevented him from starving, by giving
up to him his own daily allowance. He appears never to have quitted the
child by night or day, except when it was necessary to go for food; and
then he was always seen running at full speed to and from the
cottage. image

UNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME

A Hundred
Fables of Ãsop

With 101 Full-page Illustrations, Title-page, and Cover by
P. J. Billinghurst, and an Introductory Note by Kenneth Grahame

Price 6s.Â Â Â Â  Foolscap 4to.Â Â Â Â  Price $1.50. Times.–Got up with great taste, each fable is
illustrated by a drawing by Mr. Percy Billinghurst.