The Power of Music

One Sunday evening, five choristers were walking on the banks of a
river; after some time, being tired with walking, they sat down on the
grass, and began to sing an anthem. The field on which they sat was
terminated at one extremity by a wood, out of which, as they were
singing, they observed a hare to pass with great swiftness towards the
place where they were sitting, and to stop at about twenty yards'
distance from them. She appeared highly delighted with the harmony of
the music, often turning up the side of her head to listen with more
facility. As soon as the harmonious sound was over, the hare returned
slowly towards the wood; when she had nearly reached the end of the
field, the choristers began the same piece again; at which the hare
stopped, turned round, and came swiftly back to about the same distance
as before, where she seemed to listen with rapture and delight, till
they had finished the anthem, when she returned again by a slow pace up
the field, and entered the wood. image

Anecdote X. A Conversing Parrot

During the government of Prince Maurice in Brazil, he had heard of an
old parrot that was much celebrated for answering like a rational
creature many of the common questions put to it. It was at a great
distance; but so much had been said about it that the prince's curiosity
was roused, and he directed it to be sent for. When it was introduced
into the room where the prince was sitting, in company with several
Dutchmen, it immediately exclaimed in the Brazilian language, What a
company of white men are here! They asked it, Who is that man?
(pointing to the prince). The parrot answered, Some general or other.
When the attendants carried it up to him, he asked it, through the
medium of an interpreter (for he was ignorant of its language), Whence
do you come? The parrot answered, From Marignan. The prince asked,
To whom do you belong? It answered, To a Portuguese. He asked again,
What do you there? It answered, I look after chickens. The prince
laughing, exclaimed, You look after chickens! The parrot in answer
said, Yes, I; and I know well enough how to do it; clucking at the
same time in imitation of the noise made by the hen to call together her
young. The prince afterwards observed that although the parrot spoke in a
language he did not understand, yet he could not be deceived, for he had
in the room both a Dutchman who spoke Brazilian, and a Brazilian who
spoke Dutch; that he asked them separately and privately, and both
agreed exactly in their account of the parrot's discourse. image

Anecdote XI. Mimic

A priest once brought up an ourang-outang, which became so fond of
him that, wherever he went, it was always desirous of accompanying him. Whenever therefore he had to perform the service of his church, he was
under the necessity of shutting it up in his room. Once, however, the
animal escaped, and followed the father to the church; where silently
mounting the sounding-board above the pulpit, he lay perfectly still
till the sermon commenced. He then crept to the edge, and overlooking
the preacher, imitated all his gestures in so grotesque a manner, that
the whole congregation were unavoidably urged to laugh. The father,
surprised and confounded at this ill-timed levity, severely rebuked his
audience for their inattention. The reproof failed in its effect; the
congregation still laughed, and the preacher in the warmth of his zeal
redoubled his vociferation and his action; these the ape imitated so
exactly that the congregation could no longer restrain themselves, but
burst out into a loud and continued laughter. A friend of the preacher
at length stepped up to him, and pointed out the cause of this improper
conduct; and such was the arch demeanour of the animal that it was with
the utmost difficulty he could himself command his gravity, while he
ordered the servants of the church to take him away. image

Anecdote XII. The Heroism of a Hen

A contest of rather an unusual nature took place in the house of a
respectable innkeeper in Ireland. The parties concerned were, a hen of
the game species, and a rat of the middle size. The hen, in an
accidental perambulation round a spacious room, accompanied by an only
chicken, the sole surviving offspring of a numerous brood, was roused to
madness by an unprovoked attack made by a voracious cowardly rat on her
unsuspecting chirping companion. The shrieks of the beloved captive,
while being dragged away by the enemy, excited every maternal feeling in
the affectionate bosom of the feathered dame; she flew at the corner
whence the alarm arose, seized the lurking enemy by the neck, writhed
him about the room, put out one of his eyes in the engagement, and so
fatigued her opponent by repeated attacks of spur and bill, that in the
space of twelve minutes, during which time the conflict lasted, she put
a final period to the nocturnal invader's existence; nimbly turned
round, in wild but triumphant distraction, to her palpitating nestling,
and hugged it in her victorious bosom. image

Anecdote XIII. The Cat and Crows

A pair of crows once made their nest in a tree, of which there were
several planted round the garden of a gentleman, who, in his morning
walks, was often amused by witnessing furious combats between the crows
and a cat. One morning the battle raged more fiercely than usual, till
at last the cat gave way, and took shelter under a hedge, as if to wait
a more favourable opportunity of retreating into the house. The crows
continued for a short time to make a threatening noise; but perceiving
that on the ground they could do nothing more than threaten, one of them
lifted a stone from the middle of the garden, and perched with it on a
tree planted in the hedge, where she sat, watching the motions of the
enemy of her young. As the cat crept along under the hedge, the crow
accompanied her, flying from branch to branch, and from tree to tree;
and when at last puss ventured to quit her hiding-place, the crow,
leaving the trees and hovering over her in the air, let the stone drop
from on high on her back. image

Anecdote XIV. Filial Duty

A surgeon's mate on board a ship relates that while lying one evening
awake he saw a rat come into his berth, and after well surveying the
place, retreat with the greatest caution and silence. Soon after it
returned, leading by the ear another rat, which it left at a small
distance from the hole which they entered. A third rat joined this kind
conductor; they then foraged about, and picked up all the small scraps
of biscuit; these they carried to the second rat, which seemed blind,
and remained in the spot where they had left it, nibbling such fare as
its dutiful providers, whom the narrator supposes were its offspring,
brought to it from the more remote parts of the floor. image

Anecdote XV. The Dinner Bell

It is customary in large boarding-houses to announce the dinner-hour
by the sound of a bell. A cat belonging to one of these houses always
hastened to the hall on hearing the bell, to get its accustomed meal;
but it happened one day that she was shut up in a chamber, and it was in
vain for her that the bell had sounded. Some hours after, having been
released from her confinement, she hastened to the hall, but found
nothing left for her. The cat thus disappointed got to the bell, and
sounding it, endeavoured to summon the family to a second dinner, in
which she doubted not to participate. image

Anecdote XVI. A Singular Interposition

A lady had a tame bird which she was in the habit of letting out of
its cage every day. One morning as it was picking crumbs of bread off
the carpet, her cat, who always before showed great kindness for the
bird, seized it on a sudden, and jumped with it in her mouth upon a
table. The lady was much alarmed for the fate of her favourite, but on
turning about instantly discerned the cause. The door had been left
open, and a strange cat had just come into the room! After turning it
out, her own cat came down from her place of safety, and dropped the
bird without having done it the smallest injury. image

Anecdote XVII.