Odd Fraternity

A gentleman travelling through Mecklenburg was witness to the
following curious circumstance in an inn at which he was staying. After
dinner, the landlord placed on the floor a large dish of soup, and gave
a loud whistle. Immediately there came into the room a mastiff, a fine
Angora cat, an old raven, and a remarkably large rat with a bell about
its neck. These four animals went to the dish, and without disturbing
each other, fed together; after which the dog, cat, and rat lay before
the fire, while the raven hopped about the room. image

Anecdote XVIII. Canine Smugglers

In the Netherlands, they use dogs of a very large and strong breed,
for the purpose of draught. They are harnessed like horses, and chiefly
employed in drawing little carts with fish, vegetables, &c., to
market. Previous to the year 1795, such dogs were also employed in
smuggling; which was the more easy, as they are exceedingly docile. The
dogs were trained to go backwards and forwards between two places on the
frontiers, without any person to attend them. Being loaded with little
parcels of goods, lace, &c., like mules, they set out at midnight,
and only went when it was perfectly dark. An excellent quick-scented dog
always went some paces before the others, stretched out his nose towards
all quarters, and when he scented custom-house officers, turned back,
which was the signal for immediate flight. Concealed behind bushes, or
in ditches, the dogs waited till all was safe, then proceeded on their
journey, and reached at last beyond the frontier the dwelling-house of
the receiver of the goods, who was in the secret. But here, also, the
leading dog only at first showed himself; on a certain whistle, which
was a signal that all was right, they all hastened up. They were then
unloaded, taken to a convenient stable, where there was a good layer of
hay, and well fed. There they rested until midnight, and then returned
in the same manner back, over the frontiers. image

Anecdote XIX. A Canine Sheep Stealer

A shepherd, who was hanged for sheep-stealing, used to commit his
depredations by means of his dog. When he intended to steal any sheep,
he detached the dog to perform the business. With this view, under
pretence of looking at the sheep, with an intention to purchase them, he
went through the flock with the dog at his foot, to whom he secretly
gave a signal, so as to let him know the particular sheep he wanted,
perhaps to the number of ten or twelve, out of a flock of some hundreds;
he then went away, and from a distance of several miles, sent back the
dog by himself in the night time, who picked out the individual sheep
that had been pointed out to him, separated them from the flock, and
drove them before him, frequently a distance of ten or twelve miles,
till he came up with his master, to whom he delivered up his charge. image

Anecdote XX. The Dog and Goose

A goose was once observed to attach itself in the strongest and most
affectionate manner to the house dog, but never presumed to go into the
kennel except in rainy weather; whenever the dog barked, the goose would
cackle, and run at the person she supposed the dog barked at, and try to
bite him by the heels. Sometimes she would attempt to feed with the dog;
but this the dog, who treated his faithful companion with indifference,
would not suffer. This bird would not go to roost with the others at
night, unless driven by main force; and when in the morning they were
turned into the field, she would never stir from the yard gate, but sit
there the whole day in sight of the dog. At length orders were given
that she should no longer be molested; being thus left to herself, she
ran about the yard with him all night, and what is particularly
remarkable, whenever the dog went out of the yard and ran into the
village, the goose always accompanied him, contriving to keep up with
him by the assistance of her wings, and in this way of running and
flying, followed him all over the parish. This extraordinary affection
of the goose towards the dog, which continued till his death, two years
after it was first observed, is supposed to have originated in his
having saved her from a fox, in the very moment of distress. While the dog was ill, the goose never quitted him, day or night, not
even to feed; and it was apprehended that she would have been starved to
death had not a pan of corn been set every day close to the kennel. At
this time the goose generally sat in the kennel, and would not suffer
any one to approach it, except the person who brought the dog's, or her
own food. The end of this faithful bird was melancholy; for when the dog
died, she would still keep possession of the kennel, and a new house dog
being introduced, which in size and colour resembled that lately lost,
the poor goose was unhappily deceived, and going into the kennel as
usual, the new inhabitant seized her by the throat and killed her. image

Anecdote XXI. Sabinus and his Dog

After the execution of Sabinus, the Roman general, who suffered death
for his attachment to the family of Germanicus, his body was exposed to
the public upon the precipice of the GemoniÃ¦, as a warning to all who
should dare to befriend the house of Germanicus: no friend had courage
to approach the body; one only remained true–his faithful dog. For three
days the animal continued to watch the body; his pathetic howlings
awakened the sympathy of every heart. Food was brought him, which he was
kindly encouraged to eat; but on taking the bread, instead of obeying
the impulse of hunger, he fondly laid it on his master's mouth, and
renewed his lamentations; days thus passed, nor did he for a moment quit
the body. The body was at length thrown into the Tiber, and the generous
creature, still unwilling that it should perish, leaped into the water
after it, and clasping the corpse between its paws, vainly endeavoured
to preserve it from sinking. image

Anecdote XXII. Wrens Learning to Sing

A wren built her nest in a box, so situated that a family had an
opportunity of observing the mother bird instructing the young ones in
the art of singing peculiar to the species. She fixed herself on one
side of the opening in the box, directly before her young, and began by
singing over her whole song very distinctly. One of the young then
attempted to imitate her. After proceeding through a few notes, its
voice broke, and it lost the tune. The mother immediately recommenced
where the young one had failed, and went very distinctly through the
remainder. The young bird made a second attempt, commencing where it had
ceased before, and continuing the song as long as it was able; and when
the note was again lost, the mother began anew where it stopped, and
completed it. Then the young one resumed the tune and finished it. This
done, the mother sang over the whole series of notes a second time with
great precision; and a second of the young attempted to follow her. The
wren pursued the same course with this as with the first; and so with
the third and fourth. It sometimes happened that the young one would
lose the tune three, four, or more times in the same attempt; in which
case the mother uniformly began where they ceased, and sung the
remaining notes; and when each had completed the trial, she repeated the
whole strain. Sometimes two of the young commenced together. The mother
observed the same conduct towards them as when one sang alone. This was
repeated day after day, and several times in a day.