image

Anecdote XXIV. The Bear and Child

Leopold, Duke of Lorraine, had a bear called Marco, of the sagacity
and sensibility of which we have the following remarkable instance. During a severe winter, a boy, ready to perish with cold, thought proper
to enter Marco's hut, without reflecting on the danger which he ran in
exposing himself to the mercy of the animal which occupied it. Marco,
however, instead of doing any injury to the child, took him between his
paws, and warmed him by pressing him to his breast until the next
morning, when he suffered him to depart. The boy returned in the evening
to the hut, and was received with the same affection. For several days
he had no other retreat, and it added not a little to his joy, to
perceive that the bear regularly reserved part of his food for him. A
number of days passed in this manner without the servants knowing
anything of the circumstance. At length, when one of them came one day
to bring the bear his supper, rather later than ordinary, he was
astonished to see the animal roll his eyes in a furious manner, and
seeming as if he wished him to make as little noise as possible, for
fear of awaking the child, whom he clasped to his breast. The animal,
though ravenous, did not appear the least moved with the food which was
placed before him. The report of this extraordinary circumstance was
soon spread at court, and reached the ears of Leopold; who, with part of
his courtiers, was desirous of being satisfied of the truth of Marco's
generosity. Several of them passed the night near his hut, and beheld
with astonishment that the bear never stirred as long as his guest
showed an inclination to sleep. At dawn the child awoke, was very much
ashamed to find himself discovered, and, fearing that he would be
punished for his rashness, begged pardon. The bear, however, caressed
him, and endeavoured to prevail on him to eat what had been brought to
him the evening before, which he did at the request of the spectators,
who conducted him to the prince. Having learned the whole story, Leopold
ordered care to be taken of the little boy, who would doubtless have
soon made his fortune, had he not died a short time after. image

Anecdote XXV. The Dolphin

In the reign of Augustus CÃ¦sar there was a dolphin in the Lucrine
lake, which formed a most romantic attachment to a poor man's son. The
boy had to go every day from BaiÃ¦ to Puteoli to school, and such were
the friendly terms on which he had got with the dolphin, that he had
only to wait by the banks of the lake and cry, Simo,
Simo, the name he had given to the animal, when, lo! Simo came
scudding to the shore, let fall the sharp prickles of his skin, and
gently offered his back for the boy to mount upon. The boy, nothing
afraid, used to mount instantly, when the dolphin, without either rein
or spur, would speed across the sea to Puteoli, and after landing the
young scholar, wait about the vicinity till he was returning home, when
it would again perform the same sort of civil service. The boy was not
ungrateful for such extraordinary favour, and used every day to bring a
good store of victuals for Simo, which the animal would take from his
hand in the most tame and kindly manner imaginable. For several years
this friendly intercourse was kept up; it was, in fact, only terminated
by the death of the boy; when, as the story goes, the dolphin was so
affected at seeing him return no more, that it threw itself on the
shore, and died, as was thought, of very grief and sorrow! BUT PAST BELIEF, A DOLPHINS ARCHED BACK PRESERVED ARION FROM
HIS DESTINED WRACK; SECURE HE SITS, AND WITH HARMONIOUS STRAINS REQUITES
THE BEARER FOR HIS FRIENDLY PAINS

Anecdote XXVI. The Death of Antiochus Revenged

When Antiochus was slain in battle by Centaretrius the Galatian, the
victor exultingly leaped on the back of the fallen king's horse; but he
had no sooner done so, than the animal, as if sensible that it was
bestrode by the slayer of his master, instantly exhibited signs of the
greatest fury, and bounding forwards to the top of a lofty rock, with a
speed which defied every attempt of Centaretrius to disengage himself,
leaped with him over the precipice, at the foot of which both were found
dashed to pieces. image

Anecdote XXVII. Mice as Navigators

Although there are few who would dispute the cleverness and sagacity
of the larger animals, it is doubtful if there are many who credit the
mouse with even average intelligence. The following instance may go far
to raise our humble friend in the popular estimation; more especially as
it has been vouched for by eye-witnesses. In countries where berries are
but thinly dispersed, these little animals are obliged to cross rivers
to make their distant forages. In returning with their booty to their
magazines, they are obliged to recross the stream; in doing which they
show an ingenuity little short of marvellous. The party, which consists
of from six to ten, select a water-lily leaf, or some other floating
substance, on which they place the berries on a heap in the middle;
then, by their united force, bring it to the water's edge, and after
launching it, embark and place themselves round the heap, with their
heads joined over it, and their backs to the water. In this manner they
drift down the stream, until they reach the opposite shore, when they
unload their cargo, which they store away for the proverbial rainy
day. image

Anecdote XXVIII. A Calculating Crow

A carrion crow, perceiving a brood of fourteen chickens under the
care of the parent-hen, on a lawn, picked up one; but on a young lady
opening the window and giving an alarm, the robber dropped his prey. In
the course of the day, however, the plunderer returned, accompanied by
thirteen other crows, when every one seized his bird, and carried off
the whole brood at once. image

Anecdote XXIX. Porus Saved by his Elephant

King Porus, in a battle with Alexander the Great, being severely
wounded, fell from the back of his elephant. The Macedonian soldiers,
supposing him dead, pushed forward, in order to despoil him of his rich
clothing and accoutrements; but the faithful elephant, standing over the
body of its master, boldly repelled every one who dared to approach, and
while the enemy stood at bay, took the bleeding Porus up with his trunk,
and placed him again on his back. The troops of Porus came by this time
to his relief, and the king was saved; but the elephant died of the
wounds which it had received in the heroic defence of its master. image

Anecdote XXX. Drawing Water

Some years ago, an ass was employed at Carisbrook Castle, in the Isle
of Wight, in drawing water by a large wheel from a very deep well,
supposed to have been sunk by the Romans. When the keeper wanted water,
he would say to the ass, Tom, my boy, I want water; get into the wheel,
my good lad; which Thomas immediately performed with an alacrity and
sagacity that would have done credit to a nobler animal; and no doubt he
knew the precise number of times necessary for the wheel to revolve upon
its axis, to complete his labour, because every time he brought the
bucket to the surface of the well, he constantly stopped and turned
round his honest head to observe the moment when his master laid hold of
the bucket to draw it towards him, because he had then a nice evolution
to make, either to recede or to advance a little. It was pleasing to
observe with what steadiness and regularity the poor animal performed
his labour.