He is the greatest testimony to man's civilisation, the first and the
greatest element of human progress. Through his co-operation man was
elevated from the savage to the state of the civilised. He made the
herd possible. Without him there could have been no herd, no assured
subsistence of food and clothing, no time to study and improve the mind,
no astronomical observations, no science, no arts, no automobiles, no
airships, no wireless telegraphyâ€“nothing. The East is the home of
civilisation, because the East is the home of the dog. A young hound knows more about tracking game or scenting the enemy
after six months' practice than the most skilled savage after fifty
years of study. The dog has so aided mankind as to give him more time
for study and self-improvement. Thus began the arts and sciences. An
interesting, and we believe original observation, of the influence of
the dog on peoples is that wherever the dog is found, especially among
the shepherd peoples, such as the Chaldeans, Egyptians, Arabs, Tartars,
and Mongols, cannibalism is unknown. This is due to the fact that the
dog enables them to maintain the herds which supply them with milk,
food, and clothing, thus preserving them from the criminal temptation of
hunger. The Indians of North America never refrained from roasting their
enemies until they made allies of the horse and dog. Humboldt proves the
lively regret held by one of the last surviving chief lieutenants of the
war-like Tecumseh whom he asked
about a certain American officer who took part in the fight. "Uh!"
replied the Indian, "I eat some of him." "Do you still eat your
enemies?" asked Humboldt. "No," replied the Indian. "Big dog catch heap
meat for me!"

Surely no animal could be more uncivilised or cannibalistic in its
desires than man! Spinoza believed, however, that benevolence in animals
consisted only in their kindliness and friendly feeling for each other
and that we should expect nothing more of them. A good cow, so he
thought, was one that was kind to her calf, however ferocious she might
be toward human children. But we do not accept this standard of
goodness, nor believe that animals' kindness extends only to their own
tribes. Their lowest standard of life is no worse than the cannibalism
existing among the lower tribes of uncivilised man, which is one of the
highest ideals of tribal life. The greatest hero among our savages is
the one that can put the most enemies to death. Many animals seem to have a social instinct and a moral sentiment
toward man. They try to break the old bonds of distrust between their
master and themselves. This is especially true of the puma, second to
the largest of the big cats of the Americas, which seems to love the
society of man, and seeks not only to be near him, but to protect him
from the
attacks of the much-dreaded jaguar. A civil engineer tells the story of
an experience he had while journeying up one of the big South American
rivers by boat.