At
other times, they grunt like small pigs. Hudson says that any quick
noise, like the report of a gun, produces a most startling effect among
these little animals. As soon as the report is broken on the stillness
of the night a perfect furore of cries issues forth from every
direction. In a few seconds it ceases for a momentary lull, and then
suddenly breaks forth again, louder than before. The tones of the
different ones are so different that the cries of nearby individuals may
be plainly distinguished amidst the babel of voices coming from the
distance. It sounds as if thousands upon thousands of them were striving
to express every emotion with their tiny tenor voices. No words can
describe the effect that these sounds produce. One of the most peculiar
calls is the special alarm-note, which is sharp, sudden, and shrill. It
is reported from one to another until every vizcacha is safe in his
burrow. But with all the kind and sociable qualities of these little animals,
they have characteristics which seem rather paradoxical, and chief among
these is their resentment of any intrusion of neighbours into their
burrows. Although a number of individuals may reside in adjoining
compartments in the same burrow, yet if one enters a burrow not his
ownâ€“woe
is he! Even when pursued by fierce dogs a vizcacha will rarely enter a
room of another. If he does, he is immediately pounced upon by the angry
owner, and is usually driven clear out of the burrow.