After some years a
misunderstanding arose between the two families. The usual Christmas
visits were discontinued; not, however, so far as the spaniel was
concerned. His visits continued as before. On the eve of the first
Christmas following the misunderstanding, the Guilford family were
astonished to find at their door their London friend, CÃ¦sar. Naturally,
they expected that
he had come in advance of the family, and were happy in the thought of
this unexpected reconciliation. All evening they awaited their friends,
but none arrived. Nor did they the next day. CÃ¦sar had come of his own
accord at the accustomed time, and remained with his friends for the
usual number of days. This naturally led to a correspondence between the
families, who thereupon resumed their former friendly relations. We do
not believe, of course, that this dog counted the exact number of days
to know when to start to Guilford, but he doubtless saw something to
remind him of the past. Sir John Lubbock once related before the British Association at
Aberdeen how cards bearing the ten numerals were arranged before a dog,
and the dog given a problem, such as to state the square root of nine,
or of sixteen, or the sum of two numbers. He would then point at each
card in succession, and the dog would bark when he came to the right
one. The dog never made a mistake. If this was not evidence of a
mentality at least approaching that of men, we do not know what to call
it. If there is any difference between an animal and a human
mathematician, it depends upon special training. The animal never has
the same opportunities to learn as the man.