12.–A Tooth of Zeuglodon, one of the "Yoke Teeth," from which it
derives the name. BIRDS OF OLD

"With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues his way,
And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies."

When we come to discuss the topic of the earliest bird–not the one in
the proverb–our choice of subjects is indeed limited, being restricted
to the famous and oft-described ArchÃ¦opteryx from the quarries of
Solenhofen, which at present forms the starting-point in the history of
the feathered race. Bird-like, or at least feathered, creatures, must
have existed before this, as it is improbable that feathers and flight
were acquired at one bound, and this lends probability to the view that
at least some of the tracks in the Connecticut Valley are really the
footprints of birds. Not birds as we now know them, but still creatures
wearing feathers, these being the distinctive badge and livery of the
order. For we may well speak  of
the feathered race, the exclusive prerogative of the bird being not
flight but feathers; no bird is without them, no other creature wears
them, so that birds may be exactly defined in two words, feathered
animals. Reptiles, and even mammals, may go quite naked or cover
themselves with a defensive armor of bony plates or horny scales; but
under the blaze of the tropical sun or in the chill waters of arctic
seas birds wear feathers only, although in the penguins the feathers
have become so changed that their identity is almost lost. Fig.