H. Holmes of the United
States National Museum who found bones of the mastodon and Southern
Mammoth associated with arrowheads. But he also found fresh bones of
bison, horse, and wolf, showing that these and the arrowheads had simply
sunk to the level of the older deposit. We may pass by the so-called "Elephant Mound," which to the eye of an
unimaginative observer looks as if it might have been intended for any
one of several beasts; also, with bated breath and due respect for the
bitter controversy waged over them, pass we by the elephant pipes. There
remains, then, not a bit of man's handiwork, not a piece of pottery,
engraved stone, or scratched bone that can unhesitatingly be
said to have been wrought into the shape of an elephant before the
coming of the white man. True, there is "The Lenape Stone," found near
Doyleston, Pa., in 1872, a gorget graven on one side with the
representation of men attacking an elephant, while the other bears a
number of figures of various animals. The good faith of the finder of
this stone is unimpeachable, but it is a curious fact that, while this
gorget is elaborately decorated on both sides, no similar stone, out of
all that have
been found, bears any image whatsoever. On the other hand, if not made
by the aborigines, who made it, why was it made, and why did nine years
elapse between the discovery of the first and second portions of the
broken ornament? These are questions the reader may decide for himself;
the author will only say that to his mind the drawing is too elaborate,
and depicts entirely too much to have been made by a primitive artist. A
much better bit of testimony seems to be presented by a fragment of
Fulgur shell found near Hollyoak, Del., and now in the United States
National Museum, which bears a very rudely scratched image of an animal
that may have been intended for a mastodon or a bison. This piece of
shell is undeniably old, but there is, unfortunately, the uncertainty
just mentioned as to the animal depicted. The familiar legend of the Big
Buffalo that destroyed animals and men and defied even the lightnings of
the Great Spirit has been thought by some to have originated in a
tradition of the mastodon handed down from ancient times; but why
consider that the mastodon is meant? Why not
a legendary bison that has increased with years of story-telling? And so
the co-existence of man and mastodon must rest as a case of not proven,
although there is a strong probability that the two did live together in
the dim ages of the past, and some day the evidence may come to light
that will prove it beyond a peradventure. If scientific men are charged
with obstinacy and unwarranted incredulity in declining to accept the
testimony so far presented, it must be remembered that the evidence as
to the existence of the sea serpent is far stronger, since it rests on
the testimony of eye-witnesses, and yet the creature himself has never
been seen by a trained observer, nor has any specimen, not a scale, a
tooth, or a bone, ever made its way into any museum. REFERENCES

There are at least eleven mounted skeletons of the Mastodon in
the United States, and the writer trusts he may be pardoned for
mentioning only those which are most accessible. These are in the
American Museum of Natural History, New York; the State Museum, Albany,
N. Y.; Field Columbian Museum, Chicago; Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg;
Museum of Comparative ZoÃ¶logy, Cambridge, Mass. There is no mounted
skeleton in the United States National Museum, nor has there ever
been. The heaviest pair of tusks is in the possession of T.